README.md, before:

# lif-main
Collection of LIF components

## Toolchain
* python
* uv
* polylith
* ruff
* ty
* pytest
* pre-commit
* commitlint
* cspell
* mkdocs

## Initial Local Development Setup
1. Clone Repository
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        git clone git@github.com:LIF-Initiative/lif-main.git
        ```
2. Install uv
    *  Instructions: https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/
    *  Verify:
        *  In a terminal, run:
            ```
            uv --version
            ```
        *  You should see a something like this:
            ```
            uv 0.7.11
            ```
3.  Create Virtual Environment / Install Dependencies
    *  In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv sync
        ```
    *  Output will indicate that virtual environment was created at .venv and dependencies installed will be listed
4. Verify Python is Installed
    *  In a terminal, run: 
        ```
        uv run python --version
        ```
    *  You should see: 
        ```
        Python 3.13.4
        ```
4. Verify ruff is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run ruff --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        ruff 0.11.13
        ```
5. Verify ty is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run ty --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        ty 0.0.1-alpha.8
        ```
6. Verify pytest is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pytest --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        pytest 8.4.0
        ```
7. Verify pre-commit is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pre-commit --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        pre-commit 4.2.0 (pre-commit-uv=4.1.4, uv=0.7.11)
        ```
8. Verify mkdocs is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run mkdocs --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        mkdocs, version 1.6.1
        ```
9. Install pre-commit Hooks
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pre-commit install
        ```
    * You should see the following output:
        ```
        pre-commit installed at .git/hooks/pre-commit
        ```
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pre-commit install --hook-type commit-msg
        ```
    * You should see the following output:
        ```
        pre-commit installed at .git/hooks/commit-msg
        ```

## Optional Local Development Setup
1. Install jq
    * See: https://jqlang.org/download/
    * This is only needed if you will be using the mongodb-seed Docker container with the sample data

## Common Commands

### Check Code Formatting
```
uv run ruff format
```

### Run Linter
```
uv run ruff check
```

### Run Type Checker
```
uv run ty check
```

### Run All Checks
```
uv run pre-commit run
```

## Using Virtual Environment

Instead of having to prefix each command with `uv run`, you can instead activate the virtual environment.

### Activate
```
source .venv/bin/activate
```

### Deactivate
```
deactivate
```

Commit message:

Issue #29 - docs: add description and demo sections to readme (#9)

README.md, after:

# lif-core
The LIF Core project is a modular collection of components designed to facilitate the aggregation of learner
information from a variety of systems and sources into a single data record. The record is based off of a
flexible data model schema that can be extended and constrained for localized use. Mapping from a variety of
source formats into the LIF data model is managed by a web app (known as MDR) with a graphical UI, included in this repo.

## Try the LIF Demo

To experience the LIF components firsthand, you can run the LIF demo application using Docker. Navigate to the [`deployments/advisor-demo-docker/`](deployments/advisor-demo-docker/) directory for instructions on setting up and running the demo. This will give you an interactive demonstration of the LIF Advisor, LIF GraphQL, and MDR, allowing you to explore the system's capabilities and features in a controlled, local environment.

## Community Support

We will be activating the Discussions feature in GitHub to support community discussions and topics.
Community engagement is highly encouraged, especially for code changes and data model discussions.

## Toolchain
* python
* uv
* polylith
* ruff
* ty
* pytest
* pre-commit
* commitlint
* cspell
* mkdocs

## Initial Local Development Setup
1. Clone Repository
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        git clone git@github.com:LIF-Initiative/lif-main.git
        ```
2. Install uv
    *  Instructions: https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/
    *  Verify:
        *  In a terminal, run:
            ```
            uv --version
            ```
        *  You should see a something like this:
            ```
            uv 0.7.11
            ```
3.  Create Virtual Environment / Install Dependencies
    *  In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv sync
        ```
    *  Output will indicate that virtual environment was created at .venv and dependencies installed will be listed
4. Verify Python is Installed
    *  In a terminal, run: 
        ```
        uv run python --version
        ```
    *  You should see: 
        ```
        Python 3.13.4
        ```
4. Verify ruff is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run ruff --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        ruff 0.11.13
        ```
5. Verify ty is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run ty --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        ty 0.0.1-alpha.8
        ```
6. Verify pytest is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pytest --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        pytest 8.4.0
        ```
7. Verify pre-commit is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pre-commit --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        pre-commit 4.2.0 (pre-commit-uv=4.1.4, uv=0.7.11)
        ```
8. Verify mkdocs is Installed
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run mkdocs --version
        ```
    * You should see something like:
        ```
        mkdocs, version 1.6.1
        ```
9. Install pre-commit Hooks
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pre-commit install
        ```
    * You should see the following output:
        ```
        pre-commit installed at .git/hooks/pre-commit
        ```
    * In a terminal, run:
        ```
        uv run pre-commit install --hook-type commit-msg
        ```
    * You should see the following output:
        ```
        pre-commit installed at .git/hooks/commit-msg
        ```

## Optional Local Development Setup
1. Install jq
    * See: https://jqlang.org/download/
    * This is only needed if you will be using the mongodb-seed Docker container with the sample data

## Common Commands

### Check Code Formatting
```
uv run ruff format
```

### Run Linter
```
uv run ruff check
```

### Run Type Checker
```
uv run ty check
```

### Run All Checks
```
uv run pre-commit run
```

## Using Virtual Environment

Instead of having to prefix each command with `uv run`, you can instead activate the virtual environment.

### Activate
```
source .venv/bin/activate
```

### Deactivate
```
deactivate
```
